Improve Discovery troubleshooting (#3218)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/ref_troubleshooting-discovery.adoc

[id="Troubleshooting_Discovery_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting Discovery

> If a machine is not listed in the {ProjectWebUI} in *Hosts* > *Discovered Hosts*, it means that Discovery was has not been successful.

Author: ```suggestion
If a machine is not listed in the {ProjectWebUI} in *Hosts* > *Discovered Hosts*, it means that Discovery has failed.
```

Inspect the following configuration areas to help isolate the problem:

.Inspecting prerequisites

> * Ensure that the prerequisites are met.

Author: ```suggestion
* Ensure that your {Project} and hosts meet the requirements.
```

For more information, see xref:prerequisites-for-using-discovery_{context}[].

.Inspecting problems on {Project}
* Ensure you have set Discovery for booting and built the PXE boot configuration files.
For more information, see xref:setting-discovery-as-the-default-PXE-boot-option_{context}[].

> * Verify that these configuration files are present on the TFTP {SmartProxy} and have `discovery` set as the default boot option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that these configuration files are present on your TFTP {SmartProxy} and have `discovery` set as the default boot option:
```

** `/var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg/default`
** `/var/lib/tftpboot/grub2/grub.cfg`
* Verify that the values of the `proxy.url` and `proxy.type` options in the PXE Discovery snippet you are using.
The default snippets are named `pxelinux_discovery`, `pxegrub_discovery`, or `pxegrub2_discovery`.

.Inspecting problems with networking
* Ensure adequate network connectivity between hosts, {SmartProxyServer}, and {ProjectServer}.
* Ensure that the DHCP server provides IP addresses to the booted Discovery image correctly.
* Ensure that DNS is working correctly for the discovered hosts or use an IP address in the `proxy.url` option in the PXE Discovery snippet included in the PXE template you are using.

.Inspecting problems on the host
* If the host boots into the Discovery image but Discovery is not successful, enable the root account and SSH access on the Discovery image.
You can enable SSH and set the root password by using the following Discovery kernel options:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,verbatim"]
----
fdi.ssh=1 fdi.rootpw=_My_Password_
----
* Using TTY2 or higher, log in to a Discovery-booted host to review system logs.
For example, these logs are useful for troubleshooting:

> 
> `discover-host`:: initial facts upload
> `foreman-discovery`:: facts refresh, reboot remote commands
> `nm-prepare`:: boot script which pre-configures NetworkManager
> `NetworkManager`:: networking information

Author: ```suggestion
`discover-host`:: Initial facts upload
`foreman-discovery`:: Facts refresh, reboot remote commands
`nm-prepare`:: Boot script which pre-configures NetworkManager
`NetworkManager`:: Networking information
```

> ** `discover-host` {endash} initial facts upload
> ** `foreman-discovery` {endash} facts refresh, reboot remote commands
> ** `nm-prepare` {endash} boot script which pre-configures NetworkManager
> ** `NetworkManager` {endash} networking information

Author: ```suggestion
`discover-host`:: initial facts upload
`foreman-discovery`:: facts refresh, reboot remote commands
`nm-prepare`:: boot script which pre-configures NetworkManager
`NetworkManager`:: networking information
```

If a machine is not listed in the {ProjectWebUI} in *Hosts* > *Discovered Hosts*, inspect the following configuration areas to help isolate the error:

* Ensure that the prerequisites are met.
For more information, see xref:prerequisites-for-using-discovery_{context}[].
* Ensure you have set Discovery for booting and built the PXE boot configuration files.
For more information, see xref:setting-discovery-as-the-default-PXE-boot-option_{context}[].

> * Verify the following configuration files on the TFTP {SmartProxy}:

Reviewer: How do you verify them? Or do you only check that they're present?

Author: They must be present and they must have `discovery` as the default boot option.
That's the minimum.
I'll add that.

* Ensure that the prerequisites are met.
For more information, see xref:prerequisites-for-using-discovery_{context}[].
* Ensure you have set Discovery for booting and built the PXE boot configuration files.
For more information, see xref:setting-discovery-as-the-default-PXE-boot-option_{context}[].
* Verify the following configuration files on the TFTP {SmartProxy}:
** `/var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg/default`
** `/var/lib/tftpboot/grub2/grub.cfg`

+
The files must be present and they must have `discovery` as the default boot option.
* Ensure adequate network connectivity between hosts, {SmartProxyServer}, and {ProjectServer}.
* Check the PXE template in use and determine the PXE Discovery snippet it includes.
The default snippets are named as follows: `pxelinux_discovery`, `pxegrub_discovery`, or `pxegrub2_discovery`.
Verify the `proxy.url` and `proxy.type` options in the PXE Discovery snippet.
* Ensure that DNS is working correctly for the discovered hosts or use an IP address in the `proxy.url` option in the PXE Discovery snippet included in the PXE template you are using.

> * Ensure that the DHCP server is delivering IP addresses to the booted Discovery image correctly.

Author: I have no clue.

> * Ensure that the DHCP server is delivering IP addresses to the booted Discovery image correctly.

Reviewer: Maybe "provide" instead of "deliver"? I have not heard "to deliver IP addresses" before.

> * Ensure that the DHCP server is delivering IP addresses to the booted Discovery image correctly.

Author: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the DHCP server provides IP addresses to the booted Discovery image correctly.
```

* If the host boots into the Discovery image but Discovery is not successful, enable the root account and SSH access on the Discovery image.
You can enable SSH and set the root password by using the following Discovery kernel options:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,verbatim"]
----
fdi.ssh=1 fdi.rootpw=_My_Password_
----
+
For more information about changing the Discovery kernel options, see the following resources:

** xref:Customizing_the_Discovery_PXE_Boot_{context}[]

> ** xref:customizing-the-discovery-iso_{context}[]

Author: No, I can't. Pantheon cannot handle two xrefs.

* Use TTY2 or higher to log in to a Discovery-booted host.
The first virtual console on the Discovery-booted host is reserved for *systemd* logs.
Particularly useful system logs are tagged as follows:

** `discover-host` {endash} initial facts upload
** `foreman-discovery` {endash} facts refresh, reboot remote commands
** `nm-prepare` {endash} boot script which pre-configures NetworkManager

> ** `NetworkManager` {endash} networking information

Author: Please, look up the source.

> ** `NetworkManager` {endash} networking information

Reviewer 2: Ha, that was easier than I thought. Yay! Check out the IBM style guide: Structure and format > Lists > Definition lists.
